1. Manual
Robots_txt - To Display the restricted paths of the website.
Favicon - To know the framework used in the website building.
Sitemap_xml - full view of all the parts of the site.
HTTP_Headers - to know the version of the server and backend languages like php etc.

2. OSINT
Google_Hacking - Apply Advanced filters to google search results.
Wayback_Machine - Used to see the historical captures of websites.
Github - Explore the public repos and source code of various things.
S3_Buckets - Place provided by amazon to store files.

3. Automated Discovery
ffuf - Used to fuzz the web and access the hidden directories and files.
dirb - Used for directory enumeration of websites.
gobuster - Used for dire enumeration and discovery of hidden paths.

4. Reverse Enginnering and Debugging
Ghidra - NSA-developed open-source reverse engineering suite.
x64dbg - Open-source debugger for binaries in x64 and x32 formats.
OllyDbg - Debugger for reverse engineering at the assembly level.
Radare2 - A sophisticated open-source platform for reverse engineering.
Binary Ninja - A tool for disassembling and decompiling binaries.
PEiD - Packer, cryptor, and compiler detection tool.

5. Disassemblers and Decompilers
CFF Explorer - A PE editor designed to analyze and edit Portable Executable (PE) files.
Hopper Disassembler - A Debugger, disassembler, and decompiler.
RetDec - Open-source decompiler for machine code.

6. Static and Dynamic Analysis
Process Hacker - Sophisticated memory editor and process watcher.
PEview - A portable executable (PE) file viewer for analysis.
Dependency Walker - A tool for displaying an executable’s DLL dependencies.
DIE (Detect It Easy) - A packer, compiler, and cryptor detection tool.
PEStudio - Static analysis or studying executable file properties without running the files.
FLOSS - Extracts and de-obfuscates all strings from malware programs using advanced static analysis techniques. 

7. Forensics and Incident Response
Volatility - RAM dump analysis framework for memory forensics.
Rekall - Framework for memory forensics in incident response.
FTK Imager - Disc image acquisition and analysis tools for forensic use.

8. Network Analysis
Wireshark - Network protocol analyzer for traffic recording and examination.
Nmap - A vulnerability detection and network mapping tool.
Netcat - Read and write data across network connections with this helpful tool.

9. File Analysis
FileInsight - A program for looking through and editing binary files.
Hex Fiend - Hex editor that is light and quick.
HxD - Binary file viewing and editing with a hex editor.

10. Scripting and Automation
Python - Mainly automation-focused on Python modules and tools.
PowerShell Empire - Framework for PowerShell post-exploitation.

11. Sysinternals Suite
Autoruns - Shows what executables are configured to run during system boot-up.
Process Explorer - Provides information about running processes.
Process Monitor - Monitors and logs real-time process/thread activity.

12. Process Analysis
Procmon - A helpful tool for tracking system activity, especially regarding malware research, troubleshooting, and forensic investigations.
Process Explorer - Allows you to see the Process of the Parent-child relationship, DLLs loaded, and its path.

13. Bruteforce attacks
Hydra - Passord attacks on various service like web, ssh etc

14. Passive reconnaissance
Whois - WHOIS server replies with various information related to the domain requested. 
DNS_Lookup - QUery the DNS servers to find information related to servers