Port Scanning with Nmap

Every computer has a total of 65,535 available ports, and Nmap is a powerful tool used for port scanning and network discovery. Here's a breakdown of common scan types, how they work, and how you can use Nmap to perform these scans.
Basic Scan Types

    TCP Connect Scan (-sT)
        How It Works: This is the most basic TCP scan. The attacking machine initiates a full three-way TCP handshake (SYN, SYN-ACK, ACK) to the target machine.
        Advantages: Simple and effective, as it doesn’t require special privileges.
        Disadvantages: Can be logged by the target and is slower than SYN scans. The full handshake means detection is more likely.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sT <target>

    SYN Scan (-sS)
        How It Works: This scan only sends a SYN packet to initiate the handshake. The target responds with a SYN-ACK if the port is open or RST if the port is closed. The scan doesn't complete the handshake, making it less detectable.
        Advantages: Faster and stealthier compared to TCP Connect scans. It’s useful for evading firewalls and intrusion detection systems (IDS).
        Disadvantages: Requires root or administrative privileges to craft raw packets.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sS <target>

    UDP Scan (-sU)
        How It Works: UDP is stateless, so Nmap just sends packets to ports and waits for responses. If no response is received, the port is assumed to be open|filtered. If an ICMP message is returned, the port is marked as closed.
        Advantages: Useful for scanning non-TCP ports (e.g., DNS, SNMP).
        Disadvantages: UDP scanning is slower due to its stateless nature and requires more checks to be accurate.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sU <target>

Less Common Scan Types

    NULL Scan (-sN)
        How It Works: The request is sent with no flags set (i.e., a blank packet). A closed port should respond with an RST packet, but open ports remain silent.
        Advantages: Can bypass some firewall rules, as the packet looks unusual.
        Disadvantages: Can be flagged as suspicious by IDS systems.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sN <target>

    FIN Scan (-sF)
        How It Works: This scan sends a packet with the FIN flag, which is typically used to terminate connections. A closed port should respond with an RST, while open ports should ignore the FIN flag.
        Advantages: Can be used to evade detection in certain firewalls.
        Disadvantages: Can trigger false positives on some systems.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sF <target>

    XMAS Scan (-sX)
        How It Works: Sends a packet with the FIN, URG, and PSH flags set (hence the "Xmas" name). A closed port responds with an RST, while an open port usually ignores it.
        Advantages: Effective for evading some basic IDS.
        Disadvantages: Similar to FIN and NULL scans, but more noticeable by advanced IDS systems.

    Example Command:
    nmap -sX <target>

Other Important Nmap Features
ICMP Network Scanning

To map a network and discover live hosts, use Nmap's ICMP (ping) sweep. Nmap sends an ICMP echo request to each address in a specified range. Hosts that respond are considered alive.

Example Command:
nmap -sn <network_range>
Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)

The Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) allows users to extend Nmap's capabilities with custom scripts written in Lua. These scripts are categorized for specific purposes like vulnerability scanning, brute-forcing, or service discovery.

    Categories of NSE Scripts:
        safe: Scripts that don’t impact the target significantly.
        intrusive: Scripts that may impact or disrupt the target.
        vuln: Detect known vulnerabilities.
        exploit: Automate exploits for vulnerabilities.
        auth: Test authentication methods.
        brute: Attempt brute-force attacks.
        discovery: Discover services and network information.

Example Command:
nmap -p 80 --script http-put --script-args http-put.url='/dav/shell.php',http-put.file='./shell.php'
Firewall Evasion Techniques

Firewalls often block certain types of traffic (such as ICMP echo requests), which can affect your scan results. Here are some techniques to evade detection:

    -Pn: Treat the target as alive, bypassing the ping sweep.
    -f: Fragment packets into smaller sizes to evade detection by firewalls or IDS.
    --mtu <size>: Set the maximum transmission unit (MTU) for packet sizes.
    --scan-delay <time>: Introduce a delay between packets to avoid triggering rate-based IDS/IPS.
    --badsum: Send packets with invalid checksums to test how firewalls/IDS react.

Example Command:
nmap -Pn -f --scan-delay 100ms <target>
Summary of Key Nmap Commands

    Basic TCP Scan: nmap -sT <target>
    SYN Scan (Stealth): nmap -sS <target>
    UDP Scan: nmap -sU <target>
    NULL Scan: nmap -sN <target>
    FIN Scan: nmap -sF <target>
    XMAS Scan: nmap -sX <target>
    ICMP Ping Sweep: nmap -sn <network_range>
    NSE Example: nmap --script <script_name> <target>

By using these scan types and features, Nmap provides a flexible and powerful toolkit for network reconnaissance, vulnerability assessment, and evading detection in hostile environments.