OpenVAS (Open Vulnerability Assessment System) is an open-source vulnerability scanning and management platform designed to identify security issues in networks, servers, and applications. It is part of the Greenbone Vulnerability Management (GVM) solution and provides a wide range of tests to detect vulnerabilities and misconfigurations across IT infrastructure.
Key Features

    Comprehensive Vulnerability Scanning: Scans for known vulnerabilities using a database of regularly updated test scripts.
    Configuration Auditing: Checks for misconfigurations that may expose systems to risks.
    Wide Protocol Support: Scans services running on various protocols such as HTTP, FTP, SSH, and SMB.
    Detailed Reporting: Generates reports in various formats like HTML, PDF, and XML for detailed analysis.
    Regular Updates: Frequently updated with the latest vulnerability tests (Network Vulnerability Tests or NVTs).
    User-Friendly Interface: Includes Greenbone Security Assistant (GSA), a web-based management interface.

How OpenVAS Works

    Setup: Install and configure OpenVAS on a Linux server.
    Scan Configuration: Define targets, scan types (e.g., full or custom), and set credentials for authenticated scans if needed.
    Execution: Run scans to identify vulnerabilities and misconfigurations.
    Analysis: Review the generated reports to understand the vulnerabilities and apply appropriate remediation.

Common Commands
Starting OpenVAS Services

sudo systemctl start gvmd
sudo systemctl start openvas-scanner
sudo systemctl start gsad

    Starts the necessary services: Greenbone Vulnerability Manager (gvmd), the scanner, and the web interface (gsad).

Setting Up OpenVAS

    Update the Feed:

sudo greenbone-feed-sync

    Updates the vulnerability database and test scripts.

Initial Setup:

    sudo openvas-setup

        Configures OpenVAS for first-time use, including downloading feeds.

Running a Scan

    Access Web Interface:
        Open a browser and navigate to https://<server-ip>:9392.

    Create a Target:
        Define the target IP or range of IPs for the scan.

    Launch a Scan:
        Create and run a task to begin scanning the defined targets.

Exporting Reports

    Export reports in your desired format via the web interface or command line:

    gvm-cli --gmp-username <username> --gmp-password <password> --xml "<XML Command for report>"

Advanced Options

    Custom Scan Configurations:
        Modify scan types, such as full scans, light scans, or custom configurations targeting specific vulnerabilities.

    Credentialed Scans:
        Use SSH or SMB credentials for deeper scanning of systems.

    Alerts and Notifications:
        Set up alerts to notify admins about critical vulnerabilities automatically.

Best Practices

    Update Regularly: Always sync feeds before scans to use the latest vulnerability definitions.
    Perform Credentialed Scans: Provides more accurate results for systems requiring authentication.
    Analyze Reports Thoroughly: Prioritize vulnerabilities based on severity and apply patches or mitigations promptly.
    Run Scans Periodically: Regular scanning ensures ongoing security monitoring of your infrastructure.