WHOIS is a query and response protocol used to retrieve information about domain name registrations. It operates over TCP port 43 and adheres to the RFC 3912 specification. This protocol is commonly used to gather administrative and technical details about domain names, IP addresses, or autonomous systems.
Key Details Revealed by WHOIS

    Registrar Information
        The entity responsible for registering the domain.
        WHOIS queries often redirect to the registrar's own WHOIS server (e.g., whois.namecheap.com).

    Registrant Contact Information
        Name, organization, address, phone, and email.
        May be hidden using privacy protection services (to avoid spamming or targeted attacks).

    Domain Timeline
        Creation Date: When the domain was first registered.
        Last Updated Date: When the domain's records were last modified.
        Expiration Date: When the domain registration will expire.

    Name Servers
        Specifies the DNS servers responsible for resolving the domain.

Practical Use Cases in Reconnaissance

WHOIS queries are useful for identifying potential vulnerabilities or entry points in penetration testing. For example:

    Social Engineering: Harvest registrant details to craft phishing campaigns or pretext calls.
    Target Infrastructure: Focus attacks on the registrar, DNS servers, or email servers linked to the domain.
    Technical Reconnaissance: Correlate domain information with other online assets to discover relationships or shared infrastructure.

Considerations and Limitations

    Privacy Protections:
        Many registrants opt for privacy services, redacting personal contact details.
        Some WHOIS services may redact sensitive information like email addresses to prevent abuse.

    Rate Limiting:
        WHOIS servers often impose rate limits to deter automated queries and spamming.

    Jurisdictional Variance:
        The details provided by WHOIS may vary depending on the registrar and applicable privacy laws (e.g., GDPR in the EU).

WHOIS Command Usage
Basic Command

whois <domain_name>

Example:

whois example.com

Querying Specific WHOIS Servers

If a domain redirects to a specific WHOIS server, you can query it directly:

whois -h <WHOIS_server> <domain_name>

Example:

whois -h whois.namecheap.com example.com

Extracting Registrar Information Only

whois <domain_name> | grep -i registrar

Find Expiration and Creation Dates

whois <domain_name> | grep -i 'Creation Date\|Expiration Date'

Example Output Breakdown

Domain Name: example.com
Registrar: Namecheap, Inc.
Creation Date: 1995-01-01T00:00:00Z
Updated Date: 2023-06-01T12:34:56Z
Expiration Date: 2024-01-01T23:59:59Z
Name Server: ns1.example.com
Name Server: ns2.example.com
Registrant Name: John Doe
Registrant Organization: Example Corp
Registrant Email: contact@example.com

    Registrar: Namecheap is maintaining this domain's WHOIS record.
    Registrant Contact Info: Includes the registrant's name, organization, and email.
    Dates: The domain's lifecycle details.
    Name Servers: Points to the DNS servers resolving the domain.

Ethical Considerations

    Authorization: Ensure you have explicit permission before using WHOIS for penetration testing.
    Privacy: Be mindful of sensitive data exposed in WHOIS queries, particularly in social engineering contexts.